I find that it's often helpful to understand how something
is used to better understand its purpose.
So let's take a minute and go over a few of the most commonly used
endpoints and a scenario of when they might be used.
First off,
there's the health endpoint and I'd say that this one is probably
the most used endpoint in Spring Boot Actuator.
With cloud data applications and especially microservices,
checking the health of your application is a regular thing.
It's also a very important thing and so many container
management systems like Docker Swarm or Kubernetes come with
functionality to regular run a health check.
The Spring Boot Actuator health endpoint can serve that purpose.
It can be the endpoint that is regularly called.
Next,
there is the metrics endpoint and being able to see inside of
your live application while it's running,
especially in a production environment, is really,
really useful and that's exactly what the metrics endpoint is for.
You can use it for requesting individual metrics like the amount of
memory that your application is using or you can use it to drive
performance dashboards like Grafana, or New Relic,
or DataDog and it allows you to have constant insight into your application.
Last up is the loggers endpoint.
How many times would you say you've had a situation where you wish you
could change the log level of a running application,
and not only change it, but change it without restarting your application.
We've all been there before and that's exactly why
the loggers endpoint is so useful.
In production,
you can turn on debug logging for a short period of time to
get better diagnostic data and then you can turn it off so
it doesn't fill up your logs, all while the application is still running. Let's do a quick demo on some of these endpoints in action.